Most likely the reason you have this book in your hands—our version of the great American cheeseburger. Like all deceptively simple things, it took us years to get it right, but now you can master burger perfection in five minutes.

4 hamburger potato buns

4 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted

4 tablespoons Not Quite Our Shack-Sauce

4 pieces green leaf lettuce

8 ¼-inch slices ripe plum tomato

1 pound very cold ground beef, divided into 4 pucks

½ teaspoon Our Salt & Pepper Mix

4 slices American cheese

1. Heat a cast-iron griddle over medium-low heat until warm. Meanwhile, open the hamburger buns and brush the insides with the melted butter. A soft brush is helpful here. Place the buns buttered side down on the griddle and toast until golden brown, 2 to 3 minutes. Transfer buns to a plate. Spoon the sauce onto the top bun. Add a piece of the lettuce and two slices of tomato.

2. Increase the heat to medium and heat the griddle until hot, 2 to 3 minutes.

3. Evenly sprinkle a pinch of Our Salt & Pepper Mix on top of each puck of meat.

4. Place the pucks on the griddle, seasoned side down. Using a large, sturdy metal spatula, firmly smash each puck into a 1/3-inch-thick round patty. Pressing down on the spatula with another stiff spatula helps flatten the burger quickly. Evenly sprinkle another big pinch of Our Salt & Pepper Mix.

5. Cook the burgers, resisting the urge to move them, until the edges beneath are brown and crisp, and juices on the surface are bubbling hot, about 2½ minutes. Slide one of the spatulas beneath the burger to release it from the griddle and scrape up the caramelized browned crust. Use the other spatula to steady the burger and keep it from sliding. Flip the burgers. Put the cheese on top and cook the burgers 1 minute longer for medium. Cook more or less depending on your preference.

6. Transfer the cheeseburgers to the prepared buns and enjoy.

OUR SALT & PEPPER MIX: We mix ½ cup kosher salt with ½ teaspoon freshly ground pepper and use that mixture to season our burgers as they cook. You’ll see we call for a pinch or two of the mixture in every recipe.

ShackSauce | MAKES ABOUT 1/2 CUP

Long ago we threw away the key to the secret recipe for ShackSauce; but we promise to get you really close with ingredients easily found in your kitchen.

½ cup Hellman’s mayonnaise

1 tablespoon Dijon mustard

3/4 teaspoon Heinz ketchup

¼ teaspoon kosher dill pickling brine

Pinch of cayenne pepper

 
Reprinted from Shake Shack. Copyright © 2017 by Shake Shack Enterprises, LLC. Principal photographs copyright © 2017 by Christopher Hirsheimer. Published by Clarkson Potter/Publishers, an imprint of Penguin Random House, LLC.

Eater.com
The freshest news from the food world every day


Enter your email address
 SUBSCRIBE
By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and European users agree to the data transfer policy.
MORE FROM EATER
Spend the Long Weekend With Alice Waters, Jacques Pépin, and James Beard
Ken Friedman and April Bloomfield Shed One Restaurant as Partnership Dissolves
Mario Batali’s Three Restaurants on the Las Vegas Strip to Shutter
Watch Guy Fieri Impart His Burger-Eating Wisdom to Jimmy Fallon
Restaurant Workers’ Rights Slashed by Supreme Court
‘Queer Eye’ Returns With a New Set of Avocado Recipes Next Month
Most Read
Mario Batali’s Three Restaurants on the Las Vegas Strip to Shutter
Ken Friedman and April Bloomfield Shed One Restaurant as Partnership Dissolves
Where to Eat at 32 Airports Across North America
Kombucha’s Health Benefits Might Be a Fantasy. That Doesn’t Matter
Restaurant Workers’ Rights Slashed by Supreme Court
Eater.com
The freshest news from the food world every day


Enter your email address
 SUBSCRIBE
By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and European users agree to the data transfer policy.
